.TH schema.fcgi 7 "" "schema.fcgi" "Setup Instructions"
.\" groff formatting setup,
.\" disable justification:
.ad l
.\"

.SH NAME
schema.fcgi \- Schema Framework Request Processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B schema.fcgi
*
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B schema.fcgi
is a FastCGI server component that serves XML documents from the results
of MySQL procedures that are run in response to HTTP requests.

This document is an abbreviated list of steps for setting up the back-end
environment for SchemaServer and the client side includes from the Schema
Framework repository.

.SH SETUP STEPS
.SS PREPARE MYSQL FOR THE NEW SITE
This is in two steps.  Rather than explain the necessary parameters in the
\fBmysql\fR commands, we'll set the parameters in an initial step, then we'll
copy-and-paste the commands using variables for the parameters:
.PP
.B Set Unique Parameter Values
.sp 2
Set environment variables to be used when creating the database and loading
the procedures.
.sp
.RS 4
User=root
.br
PWord=\fIpassword\fR
.br
DBase=\fIdatabase_name\fR
.br
.RE
.PP
.B Create Database and Install System Procedures
.sp 2
After having set \fIUser\fR, \fIPWord\fR, and \fIDBase\fR variables,
copy the following lines and paste them onto the command line.  Leave off the first
line if you have already created the database.  The \fBcd\fR command is here to
avoid line wrap on the command that loads the \fBsys_procs.sql\fR file.
.sp
.RS 4
\fBcd\fR /usr/local/lib/SchemaServer/install
.br
\fBmysql\fR -u ${User} -p${PWord} -e "CREATE DATABASE ${DBase}"
.br
\fBmysql\fR -f -u ${User} -p${PWord} ${DBase} < sys_procs.sql
.RE
.SS CONFIGURE APACHE SERVER WEB SITE
.PP
Apache needs a directory to which the Virtual Host will point.
.sp
.PP
.B Create New Directory
.sp 2
Create a directory to which Apache will find the web site files.  This example
will follow a convention for associating related directories in anticipation
of later installing the client-side Schema Framework, the only necessary thing
is to configure Apache to find the directory.
.sp
.RS 4
cd /var/www
.br
sudo mkdir \fIMySite\fR
.br
cd \fIMySite\fR
.br
sudo mkdir generated setup site
.RE
.sp 2
The directory \fI/var/www/MySite/site\fR. will host the website files.
The other directories (generated and setup) are suggested in order to more
easily bundle the complete set of files needed to duplicate your website.
This will make it easier to put your site under version control and to install
a localhost development website to a public location.
.PP
.B Configure Apache
.sp 2
Apache must be prepared to associate a host name to the website files in the
new directory.  This is done with a configuration file.

Go to the Apache sites directory:
.sp
.RS 4
cd /etc/apache2/sites-available
.RE
.sp
Use your favorite text editor to open a new file in the directory:
.sp
.RS 4
sudo emacs \fImysite.conf\fR
.RE
.sp
Enter the following text into the new file, making adjustments according to
your unique setup.  Pay attention to \fBDocumentRoot\fR so that it matches the
path where your website files reside, and to \fBDirectoryIndex\fR so that it
matches the name of a real file in the DocumentRoot directory.
.sp 2
.RS 4
<VirtualHost *:80>
.br
   ServerName www.mysite.com
.br
   ServerAlias mysite
.br
   DocumentRoot /var/www/\fIMySite\fR/site
.br
   DirectoryIndex index.html
.br
</VirtualHost>
.RE
.sp 2
Enable the site and restart Apache.  Make sure \fImysite\fR is replaced with
the root name of the configuration file.  In this example, since the
configuration file is named \fImysite.conf\fR, use \fImysite\fR with the
\fBa2ensite\fR command.
.sp 2
.RS 4
sudo a2ensite \fImysite\fR
.br
sudo service apache2 restart
.SS PREPARE HOSTNAME TRANSLATION
Apache will serve the new site when it receives a request for its hostname.
For that to work, we need to provide a translation from the hostname to an
IP address.  We'll talk about two different methods of translating the
hostname: local and internet.
.TP localhost CONFIGURATION
This is the simplest version.  On a development workstation or LAN, the hostname
translation can be done the the \fB/etc/hosts\fR file.  The following is a
command for providing a hostname translation to access the site on localhost:
.RS 4
sudo echo "127.0.0.1 mysite" >> /etc/hosts
.RE
To remove the instruction, open \fB/etc/hosts\fR with a text editor and remove
or comment-out the line.
.sp
If you own a domain name, you can create a web-based hostname translation with
a domain name server (DNS).
.RS 
.IP "1"
Go to the domain registrar website of your domain name \fImysite.com\fR.
.IP "2"
Find the \fIhost records\fR page for your domain name.
.IP "3"
Add an \fBA\fR record for each ServerName or ServerAlias that you want to be
accessible from the web.  The \fBA\fR record only contains the prefix of the 
hostname.  In our example, with Apache watching for \fIwww.mysite.com\fR, we
make an \fBA\fR record for \fIwww\fR.
.RE
.sp 2
It will take some time for the change to become active.  Check occasionally,
but be patient.

.SS PREPARE THE CLIENT-SIDE FRAMEWORK
.PP
In this example, we are loading the Schema Framework to be the consumer of
the Schema Server services.  This step is not part of configuring the Schema
Server, but is part of the process of making a working website.  The Schema
Framework is one implementation of a client-side consumer of the Schema Server
services.  It is possible that the framework may be forked or even replaced
in the future, in which case you'll follow instructions associated with the
newer framework.
.PP
This step assumes that you have installed the
.UR https://github.com/cjungmann/schemafw
Schema Framework
.UE 
from which the files can be copied.  This example copies boilerplate files from
the Schema Framework installation into the directory we setup in previous steps.
.sp 2
.RS 4
cd /var/www/\fIMySite\fR/site
.br
cp /usr/local/lib/schemafw/default.xsl .
.br
ln -s /usr/local/lib/schemafw/web_includes includes
.RE
.sp 2
.PP
Edit \fIdefault.xsl\fR to replace, at least, the \fItitle\fR and \fIh1\fR elements,
replacing them with the title and main head strings appropriate for your website.

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\fBschema.fcgi\fR(7), \fBinfo\fR schemaserver, \fBinfo\fR schemafw



